Project brief
Build a personal gaming stats website hosted on GitHub Pages. The initial release is a single-game dashboard for Path of Exile 2 that displays cached snapshots of my own character progress, with the architecture designed so more games can be added later without redesigning the site.

This is not a portfolio site first; it is a personal dashboard product with a lightweight personal identity layer. The UI should feel polished and game-adjacent, but the main priority is readable stats, clean information hierarchy, and maintainable structure.

Scope and limits
In scope
Static GitHub Pages site.

Local JSON data files committed to the repo.

One dashboard for POE2.

Character roster, current snapshot stats, and simple history views.

A reusable layout and data model that can support additional games later.

Manual or semi-manual data refresh by replacing cached files.

Optional GitHub Actions workflow for build/deploy only.

Out of scope for v1
Live API integration with GGG.

OAuth or any credentialed backend.

User accounts, login, cloud database, or server functions.

Real-time sync.

Multi-user support.

Editing data from the website UI.

Product goals
The website should help answer:

Which POE2 characters do I currently have in the league?

What is each character’s current state at a glance?

How has each character progressed over time?

Can I quickly compare characters and spot recent changes?

The website should also establish a reusable foundation for future game dashboards, so adding another game becomes “add a new adapter and new views,” not “start over.”

User experience
Design the site as a dashboard/web app rather than a traditional homepage. Use a dark-first aesthetic with strong typography, restrained color, and subtle motion; the interface should feel premium, not cluttered. The most important information should be visible without hunting through panels.

Recommended top-level layout:

Header with site name, last updated timestamp, theme toggle, and game switcher placeholder.

Main POE2 overview section with summary KPI cards.

Character roster section with cards or a sortable table.

Character detail section or modal/panel for deeper stats.

Progress/history section with simple trends.

Footer with a note that the data is cached personal tracking data.

Data model
Use a normalized JSON structure so the UI can stay generic. All source data should be transformed into one frontend-friendly schema before rendering.

Recommended files:

data/poe2/latest.json — current normalized snapshot.

data/poe2/history.json — historical snapshots for charts.

data/poe2/metadata.json — league name, update time, notes, schema version.

Suggested normalized schema:

json
{
  "game": "poe2",
  "updatedAt": "2026-06-08T14:30:00+12:00",
  "league": {
    "name": "Example League",
    "season": "2026"
  },
  "summary": {
    "characterCount": 4,
    "highestLevel": 82,
    "averageLevel": 61,
    "totalDeaths": 23
  },
  "characters": [
    {
      "id": "char-001",
      "name": "ExampleName",
      "class": "Example Class",
      "level": 82,
      "status": "active",
      "lastPlayedAt": "2026-06-08T12:10:00+12:00",
      "stats": {
        "deaths": 4,
        "gold": 0,
        "resists": {
          "fire": 75,
          "cold": 75,
          "lightning": 75,
          "chaos": 12
        }
      },
      "tags": ["league", "mapping"],
      "historyKey": "char-001"
    }
  ],
  "history": {
    "char-001": [
      {
        "date": "2026-06-01",
        "level": 77,
        "deaths": 3
      },
      {
        "date": "2026-06-08",
        "level": 82,
        "deaths": 4
      }
    ]
  }
}
Important rule: the UI should only read normalized files, never game-specific raw files directly. That separation is what will make future multi-game support manageable.

Metrics for v1
Keep v1 intentionally small. Start with metrics that are easy to read and useful to compare.

Recommended v1 metrics:

Character name.

Class / build label.

Level.

Status, such as active or inactive.

Last played date.

Death count.

League tag.

A short note field.

Historical level progression.

Historical deaths progression.

Optional if you already have reliable cached values:

Currency/gold total.

Resistances.

Ascendancy or specialization.

Main skill or build archetype.

Gear score or custom power rating.

Avoid trying to track every possible stat in v1. A focused dashboard is better than a bloated one.

Technical approach
Use a static frontend that reads JSON files and renders client-side. This aligns with GitHub Pages’ static hosting model, where static files are published directly and custom build steps can be handled by GitHub Actions if needed.

Recommended stack:

Vite + vanilla JS, or Vite + React if preferred.

TypeScript if the agent is comfortable with it.

CSS variables or Tailwind for styling.

Chart library only if needed for history views.

No backend services.

Recommended choice for simplicity:

Vite + React + TypeScript.

Tailwind or plain CSS modules.

Recharts or Chart.js for one or two graphs.

Deployed to GitHub Pages via GitHub Actions.

Repo structure
Use a structure like this:

text
repo/
  src/
    app/
    components/
    features/
      poe2/
        components/
        transforms/
        views/
    data/
      loaders/
      schema/
    styles/
    utils/
  public/
    data/
      poe2/
        latest.json
        history.json
        metadata.json
  scripts/
    validate-data.mjs
    import-poe2.mjs
  .github/
    workflows/
      deploy.yml
  index.html
  package.json
  vite.config.ts
If the agent chooses a no-framework version, keep the same conceptual separation even if there is only one HTML entry file.

Page and component plan
v1 views
Overview dashboard.

Character roster list/table.

Character detail drawer or modal.

History charts section.

Core reusable components
App shell.

Header.

KPI card.

Section container.

Stat badge.

Data table.

Empty state.

Error state.

Last updated pill.

Chart panel.

POE2-specific components
Character card.

Character comparison row.

League summary block.

Build order
Phase 1: foundation
Create the repo and GitHub Pages deployment setup.

Decide stack and scaffold the app.

Build the base layout, theming, typography, and spacing system.

Add dark mode and mobile responsiveness.

Create reusable primitives: cards, tables, buttons, panels.

Phase 2: fake-data prototype
Create a realistic sample latest.json and history.json.

Build the overview KPI section.

Build the character roster.

Build the character detail panel.

Build one or two simple historical charts.

Validate the entire UX using only fake data first.

Phase 3: data pipeline
Define the normalized schema formally.

Create a manual import process from your cached source data into normalized JSON.

Add a validation script that checks required fields and types.

Ensure the UI fails gracefully if data is missing or partial.

Add schema versioning to metadata.

Phase 4: polish
Add sorting and filtering to the roster.

Add empty states and loading states.

Add subtle transitions for panel open/close and number changes.

Add accessibility pass: keyboard navigation, focus styles, semantic headings.

Add performance pass: split code, optimize charts, reduce bundle size.

Phase 5: extensibility
Create a generic “game adapter” interface.

Move POE2 transforms behind that interface.

Add a placeholder second game slot in navigation without implementing it.

Document the process for adding future games.

Data refresh workflow
Because this is cached-data only, use a simple manual workflow:

Obtain or assemble the latest POE2 snapshot from your own source.

Convert it into the normalized schema.

Replace latest.json and append to history.json.

Run validation.

Commit and push.

Let GitHub Pages redeploy.

Optional later improvement:

Add a local script that takes raw exported or hand-maintained data and rewrites the normalized JSON automatically.

Add a GitHub Action that runs validation on push before deployment.

Quality rules for the coding agent
Use these implementation rules:

Optimize for maintainability over visual tricks.

Keep all displayed data driven from JSON.

Separate raw data, transforms, and UI.

Use semantic HTML and accessible controls.

Make mobile support a first-class requirement.

Prefer one clear dashboard over many half-finished pages.

Avoid hardcoding POE2 assumptions into shared UI components.

Keep the design visually cohesive, with only a few accent colors.

Include empty, missing-data, and invalid-data states.

Show “last updated” clearly because the site is snapshot-based.

Definition of done for v1
v1 is complete when:

The site deploys correctly to GitHub Pages.

The POE2 dashboard renders entirely from cached JSON.

The overview, roster, detail, and history sections all work.

The site is usable on desktop and mobile.

The data schema is documented.

A manual refresh process exists and is tested.

The codebase is structured so a second game can be added cleanly.